In at least 1 full and complete paragraph (at least 5-7 sentences) explain WHY you have chosen this career.  Your explanation should be personal to you and not generic.  
*In other words do not just say you want to be a Doctor because you “like to help people, or because it makes a lot of money”.  You should explain why you like the actual profession, who has influenced you in your decision, what skills you have that will help you succeed in that profession etc.
I have chosen this career because since I was a kid I’ve always been intrigued and interested in medicine. Whether it was me feeling bored and looking at the labels and researching the ingredients, or actually learning herbology in class. I’ve always felt intrigued by the ingredients and how it will help people’s growth and well being. Like how does a body feel a little better by just eating a single pill? That has always been on my mind. When I’m sleepless at night, I think and ponder why and then how, and then if I can do it.I grew up giving and making sure my family took pills during headaches etc. and that my grandmother took her daily pills. When I used to be bored I would turn a random medicine in the medicine drawer and read the ingredients. I took time in searching up each one, learning about them, which then caused me to want to make them. Someone who has influenced my decision in the medical field in general is my Khala, (my aunt). She is a kidney specialist, and sometimes when she would come home she would talk about the hardship of people and their stories, and it always brought me closer to wanting to be a doctor. 
Provide a description of the responsibilities and duties that are associated with your chosen career as well as an overview of what they do.
	The responsibilities,overview, and duties that are associated with my chosen career are:
Responsibilities: 
Have to ensure efficacy, quality, and safety of newly produced medications
Duties:
 Create new medicine to efficiently deal with diseases, illnesses, disorders, or headaches. 
Research and develop 
Formulate new ways in making medicine using less materials to make more
Producing in large amount— meaning trying to get the medicine to be produced quickly
And making guidelines as to who can take the medicine and in how much. 
What is the required education to obtain this position?  
Yes there is a required training, certification, and a license to practice for this profession. Physicians must need a bachelor’s degree and must attend  medical school for their specific profession in the field. Depending on what specialty they choose, they also need 3-9 years in internship and residency programs. In addition to requiring a bachelor's degree, physicians might need an M.D or a D.O. No specific undergraduate degree is required to enter an M.D. or D.O. program, but applicants to medical school usually have studied biology, physical science, or healthcare and related fields. Applicants usually must submit transcripts, score from the MCAT, and letters of recommendation. All states require physicians to be licensed.
What is the cost of this education/training?  Include any tests, certifications and or licenses needed.  Use your college search assignment if a bachelor’s is needed.  Anything beyond a bachelor’s must be researched.  
	The cost of education and training, certifications, licenses: 
Bachelor’s degree = $45,475+
MD = $105,168+ (6 years) 
Certifications = $805
Licenses = $40 
What types of skills would you need (identify BOTH hard and soft skills)?  
Hard Skills:  Based on the description, the hard skill that is needed for this profession is dexterity. Dexterity is the ability to be sure-handed or in control of the hand , especially with sharp material or important materials to prevent accidents, making matters worse, or losing resources needed. 
Soft Skills:Based on the description, the soft skills needed for this profession are communication skill, compassion, being detail oriented, leadership skills, organizational skills, patience, physical stamina, and problem solving. For communication skills, this profession requires the physician to be able to communicate to emotional and difficult clients to effectively identify the problem, give results, and have a soft tone for them to feel safe. For compassion, physicians must be able to have understanding even if they haven’t experienced it themselves so they can calm the patients for themselves or for their loved one.  For being detail oriented, this is important because the physician must be able to remember important information and point out any irregularities and be able to pinpoint problems as soon as they can. For leadership skills, physicians should be able to communicate with colleagues, and should be able to communicate with other departments to get resources/materials. For organizational skills, the physician should be able to have all their information sorted and put in place in a way no information gets left out and so that they can understand the information in a way for themselves and others if they were to pass the information to another. Patience is key. The physician must be calm and must be able to deal with the patient whether they're reacting over the outcome, or are unhappy in how the procedure is going. For physical stamina, physicians must be able to be on their feet for the entire day and have to be active enough to get from one room to another quickly to extract information and to be able to grab the attention of a colleague if there are discrepancies. For problem solving skills, physicians should be able to their best of their ability to figure out the symptoms and to determine the right treatment, and in crisis moments must figure out quickly, meaning that they also have to work under stressful moments. 
What is the basic starting AND median salary for this position? The average salary for this position is $128,423 a year, with a high and low of $295,000 and as low as $25,500.
Is this career projected to grow, decline or remain the same?  What is the projected growth?  What does this mean?  List some possible factors that influence the projected growth.  
This career is projected to grow. The projection growth is 19%. 
What would your typical work environment be?  Provide location, immediate surroundings, physical and mental aspects (calm, stressful etc.) any additional perks and benefits associated with your employment.  The typical work environment of this profession is on foot in a lab. They are constantly communicating with other scientists, pharmacists, and statisticians. They are testing with chemicals and must be careful not to waste any materials of their own, or of other members. 
What classes would you elect to have at the high school in order to help prepare you for this career? (Use the HS curriculum guide with exact course names)
Biology Accelerated (this year) 
Chemistry (H) with lab 
Physics (H) with lab
Pre-Calculus (H)
Calcus (H) or Calc AB
Molecular Biology Lab Techniques
Anatomy and Physiology (H) DCC
AP BIO DCC
AP Environmental Science DCC
Human Biology 
